1931 - Born in Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu.

1954-  Graduated in physics from Saint Joseph’s College Tiruchirapalli.

1955- Moved to Madras to study further Aerospace Engineering at the Madras Institute of Technology.

1969-  Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam was chosen to be the project director in ISRO

1980- led the project to build India’s first Indigenous satellite launch vehicle (SLV),
SLV-III successfully launched the satellite Rohini into orbit.

1981- The Government of India has honored him with Padma Bhushan

1990- The Government of India has honored him with Padma Vibhushan for his contribution and work with ISRO and DRDO.

1997- The Government of India has honored with the Bharat Ratna Award for his contribution to scientific research and the modernization of defense technology.

	He was also presented with the Indira Gandhi Award for National Integration from the Indian National Congress.	

2002- Served as the President of India (2002-2007)

2007- Received the King Charles II Medal from the Royal society.


2015- dies at the age of 83.



Some Key Points..................



Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam was appointed as the CEO of the Integrated Guided Missile Development Programme (IGMDP). 
The program was under the guidance of the Ministry of Defence.
He also played an important role in the development of nuclear power in India behind the Pokhran II nuclear test.
APJ Abdul Kalam has also contributed to the field of medicine in India.
He and his team developed lightweight prosthetics from space-age material to enable physically challenged children to be able to walk.
He has collaborated with cardiologist B. Soma Raju to build Indigenous coronary stents.
These stents led to over 50% price-cut compared to imported stents.
He has developed the concept of an indigenous ‘rugged tablet’ computer with B. Soma Raju for the healthcare professionals at primary health centers in rural regions.
Dr. Kalam launched a mass movement centered around anti-corruption in 2011 which covered themes such as social, environmental, and ethical issues.
He is known as the People’s President and has been inclined towards the welfare of the younger generation.
Dr. Kalam as a President set a crucial political precedent in the country. He was the first President of India who sends back a bill to parliament for reconsideration.

